Add section about loops in basic tutorial (#583)
crystal-lang/crystal-book: docs/tutorials/basics/50_control_flow.md

Both clauses have branches with the same conditions but in a different order and they behave differently.
The first matching condition selects which branch executes.

## Loops

> This section delves into reducing repetition by letting code repeat itself in a loop.

Reviewer: I would go here with something even simpler:
```suggestion
This section introduces the basics of repeated execution of code.
```

The basic feature is the `while` clause. Its structured quite similar to an `if` clause:

> The keyword `while` designates the begin and is followed by an expression serving as the loop condition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The keyword `while` designates the beginning and is followed by an expression serving as the loop condition.
```

All subsequent expressions are part of the loop until the closing keyword `end`.
The loop continues to repeat itself as long as the return value of the condition is *truthy*.

Let's try a simple program for counting from 1 to 10:

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
counter = 0

while counter < 10
  counter += 1

  puts "Counter: #{counter}"
end
```

The code between `while` and `end` is executed 10 times. It prints the current counter value and increases it by one.
After the 10th iteration, the value of `counter` is `10`, thus `counter < 10` fails and the loop breaks.

An alternative is to replace `while` with the keyword `until` which expects just the opposite truthiness. `until x` is equivalent to `while !x`.

> ```crystal-play

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```{.crystal .crystal-play}
```

counter = 0

> until counter > 9

Author: ```suggestion
until counter => 10
```

  counter += 1

  puts "Counter: #{counter}"
end
```

!!! tip
    You can find more details on these expressions in the language specification: [`while`](../../syntax_and_semantics/while.md) and [`until`](../../syntax_and_semantics/until.md).

### Infinite loops

When working with loops, it's important to care about the loop condition failing at some point.

> Otherwise, it wouldn't stop ever and continue to all eternity – or until you stop the program externally (for example <kbd>Ctrl+C</kbd>, `kill`, pull the plug or when armageddon arrives).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Otherwise, it would continue forever or until you stop the program externally (for example <kbd>Ctrl+C</kbd>, `kill`, pull the plug or when armageddon arrives).
```

    and also take care of ensuring valid break conditions. A few of them will be introduced in following lessons.

In some cases, the intention is to really have an endless loop.
An example would be a server that always repeats waiting for a connection, or
a command processor waiting for user input.
Then it should be obvious of course, and not hidden in a complex, never-failing loop condition. The most plain way to express that is `while true`.
The condition `true` is always truthy, so the loop repeats endlessly.

```cr
while true
  puts "Hi, what's your name? (hit Enter when done)"

  # `gets` returns input from the console
  name = gets

  puts "Nice to meet you, #{name}."
  puts "Now, let's repeat."
end
```

!!! note
    This example is not an interactive playground by choice because the playground can't
    handle non self-terminating programs, and processing user input.
    It would just time out and print an error.
    You can compile and run this code with a local compiler, though.

    To stop the program, hit <kbd>Ctrl+C</kbd>. This sends a signal to the process asking it

>     to exit.

Author: That's not a problem. Line breaks are just rendered as space.

### Skipping and Breaking

It can be useful to skip some iterations in between, or stop the iteration entirely on some condition.

The keyword `next` inside a loop body skips to the next iteration, ignoring any expressions left in the current iteration.
If the loop condition isn't met, the loop finishes and the body won't execute another time.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
counter = 0

while counter < 10
  counter += 1

  if counter % 3 == 0
    next
  end

  puts "Counter: #{counter}"
end
```

This example could've easily be written without `next` by placing the `puts` expression in a conditional instead.
The value of `next` becomes apparent when there are many more expressions in the method body to be skipped.

Loop conditions can be difficult to calculate, for example because they require multiple steps or depend on input that needs to be determined.
In such situations, it's not very practical to write all the logic in the loop condition.
The keyword `break` can be used anywhere in a loop body and serves as an additional option to break from a loop regardless of its loop condition.
Control flow immediately continues after the end of the loop.

> ```{.crystal .crystal-play}

Author: I think it's better to use a program that can run in the online playground. This wouldn't work because it needs user input.

Both clauses have branches with the same conditions but in a different order and they behave differently.
The first matching condition selects which branch executes.

## Loops

> This section delves into writing code that it will repeat until a condition (aka the `loop condition`) is met

Reviewer: This line doesn't work: what is _it_ in "it will repeat"? I repeat my suggestion:

```suggestion
This section introduces the basics of repeated execution of code.
```

An alternative is to replace `while` with the keyword `until` which expects just the opposite truthiness. `until x` is equivalent to `while !x`.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
counter = 0

until counter >= 10
  counter += 1

  puts "Counter: #{counter}"
end
```

!!! tip
    You can find more details on these expressions in the language specification: [`while`](../../syntax_and_semantics/while.md) and [`until`](../../syntax_and_semantics/until.md).

### Infinite loops

When working with loops, it's important to care about the loop condition being *falsey* at some point.
Otherwise, it would continue forever or until you stop the program externally (for example <kbd>Ctrl+C</kbd>, `kill`, pull the plug or when armageddon arrives).

In this example, not incrementing the counter it would be the same as writing:

```
while true
  puts "Counter: #{counter}"
end
```
Or if the condition was `counter > 0`, it would match for all values: they only increase from `1`.
This would not technically be infinite, as it will fail with a math error when the counter reaches the maximum value of a 32-bit integer. But conceptually that's similar to an infinite loop.

> Such logic errors can be easy to miss and so it's very important to pay attention when writing the loop condition and also taking care of meeting said breaking case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such logic errors can be easy to miss and so it's very important to pay attention when writing the loop condition and also taking care of meeting said breaking case.
```

A good practice for index variables (such as `counter` in our example) is to increment them at the beginning of the loop.

> That makes it harder to forget that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That makes it harder to forget to update them.
```

while true
  puts "Hi, what's your name? (hit Enter when done)"

  # `gets` returns input from the console
  name = gets

  puts "Nice to meet you, #{name}."
  puts "Now, let's repeat."
end
```

!!! note
    This example is not an interactive playground by choice because the playground can't
    handle non self-terminating programs, and processing user input.
    It would just time out and print an error.
    You can compile and run this code with a local compiler, though.

    To stop the program, hit <kbd>Ctrl+C</kbd>. This sends a signal to the process asking it
    to exit.

### Skipping and Breaking

It can be useful to skip some iterations in between, or stop the iteration entirely on some condition.

The keyword `next` inside a loop body skips to the next iteration, ignoring any expressions left in the current iteration.
If the loop condition isn't met, the loop finishes and the body won't execute another time.

```{.crystal .crystal-play}
counter = 0

while counter < 10
  counter += 1

  if counter % 3 == 0
    next
  end

  puts "Counter: #{counter}"
end
```

This example could've easily be written without `next` by placing the `puts` expression in a conditional instead.

> The value of `next` becomes apparent when there are many more expressions in the method body to be skipped.

Reviewer: "value" is used as the value of an expression, so it can get a bit confusing.
```suggestion
The worth of `next` becomes apparent when there are many more expressions in the method body to be skipped.
```
